INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Music and Dance',"Music is an integral part of Goan culture. The state is famous for its traditional folk music, such as the mando and dulpod, which are often accompanied by instruments like the violin and guitar. Goa is also known for its electronic dance music (EDM) scene, with world-renowned music festivals and parties.",6);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Cuisine',"Goan cuisine is a fusion of Indian, Portuguese, and local flavors. Seafood, coconut milk, and spices are prominent ingredients. Popular dishes include fish curry rice, vindaloo, xacuti, and bebinca, a traditional Goan dessert.
",6);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Architecture',"Goa is dotted with beautiful colonial-era churches, forts, and old Portuguese-style houses. The architecture reflects the state's colonial past and is a significant cultural heritage. The Basilica of Bom Jesus, in Old Goa, is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and a notable example of Baroque architecture.",6);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Beaches and Water Sports',"Goa's beautiful beaches are not only a major tourist attraction but also a significant part of the local culture. The relaxed beach lifestyle, water sports, beachside shacks, and beach parties contribute to the state's unique charm.",6);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Cultural Fusion',"Goa's culture is a blend of Indian and Portuguese influences. The Indo-Portuguese blend is especially evident in the architecture, cuisine, and festivals. This cultural fusion sets Goa apart from other regions of India.
",6);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Language',"Gujarati is the official language of the state and the most widely spoken language. It has a rich literary tradition, with poets and writers who have made significant contributions to Gujarati literature. Hindi and English are also commonly used for communication.",7);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Festivals',"Gujarat is known for its colorful and vibrant festivals. Some of the most famous festivals include 'Navratri, 'Diwali','Uttarayan(Makar Sankranti)' etc. ",7);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Music and Dance'," Gujarat has a rich tradition of folk music and dance. Raas-Garba, a traditional dance form performed during Navratri, is one of the most famous. Various folk instruments, like the dhol, manjira, and harmonium, accompany these dances.
",7);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Cuisine',"Gujarati cuisine is known for its vegetarian dishes and a harmonious blend of sweet, salty, and spicy flavors. Dhokla, Khandvi, Fafda, and Thepla are popular snacks. A traditional Gujarati thali includes an array of dishes like dal, sabzi, roti, and rice, accompanied by pickles and chutneys.
",7);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Religion',"Gujarat has a diverse religious landscape. Hinduism is the predominant religion, but there are also significant Jain, Muslim, Sikh, and Christian communities. The state is home to several important pilgrimage sites and religious festivals",7);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Architecture',"Gujarat is home to a range of architectural styles, from ancient temples like the Sun Temple in Modhera and the Jain temples of Palitana to modern architecture like the Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad. The state also has a significant influence of Indo-Islamic architecture due to its historical connections with Islamic rulers.
",7);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Folk Traditions',"Gujarat has a rich tapestry of folk traditions and rituals. The state's diverse communities have their own unique customs and practices, often tied to agriculture, festivals, and life-cycle events.",7);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Language',"Hindi is the official language of Haryana and is the most widely spoken language. Haryanvi, a regional dialect of Hindi, is also commonly spoken in the state",8);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Festivals',"Haryana celebrates a variety of festivals with enthusiasm. Some of the prominent festivals include 'Baishakhi','Teej','Diwali and Holi'.",8);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Folklore and Stories',"Haryana has a treasure trove of folklore and oral traditions. These stories often depict the valor of legendary figures and are passed down through generations as a form of cultural preservation.",8);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Agriculture',"Haryana is known as the 'Granary of India' due to its rich agricultural produce. The state's culture is deeply connected to farming, and traditional agricultural practices are an integral part of rural life.",8);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Cuisine',"Haryanvi cuisine is characterized by its simplicity and robust flavors. Roti (flatbread) is a staple, and dishes like Bhutte Ka Kees, Bhura Roti, and Haryanvi Kadhi are popular. Dairy products like milk, ghee, and curd are widely used.",8);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Sports and Martial Arts',"Haryana has produced numerous sports champions, especially in wrestling and boxing. The state is known for its traditional martial arts forms, such as Kushti (wrestling) and Gatka (a Sikh martial art)",8);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Folklore and Stories',"Haryana has a treasure trove of folklore and oral traditions. These stories often depict the valor of legendary figures and are passed down through generations as a form of cultural preservation.
",8);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Fairs and Melas',"Haryana hosts various fairs and melas (festivals) throughout the year, attracting people from different parts of the state. These events often feature traditional music, dance, and folk performances.",8);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Languages',"Hindi is the official language of Himachal Pradesh and is widely spoken. However, there are several regional languages and dialects spoken by different communities, including Himachali, Punjabi, Kinnauri, and Tibetan in areas close to the Tibetan border.
",9);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Festivals',"Himachal Pradesh celebrates a multitude of festivals with great fervor. Some of the major festivals include 'Dussehra','Losar','Lohri' etc.",9);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Music and Dance',"Himachali folk music and dance are integral to the state's culture. Traditional instruments like the dhol, nagara, and shehnai are commonly used. Some popular dances include Nati, Chamba Chaugan, and Kullu's Thoda.",9);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Art and Handicrafts',"Himachal Pradesh is known for its traditional arts and crafts. The state produces intricate woodwork, especially in regions like Chamba and Kinnaur. Handwoven textiles, including the famous Himachali shawls, are also a part of the local culture.",9);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Tribal Culture',"Himachal Pradesh is home to several indigenous tribal communities, including the Kinnauris, Lahaulis, and Spitiis. These communities have their own distinct languages, traditions, and customs that contribute to the state's cultural diversity.",9);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Adventure and Sports',"Himachal Pradesh's culture is also influenced by its love for adventure sports, such as trekking, mountaineering, and skiing. The state attracts adventure enthusiasts from around the world.",9);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Tribal Culture',"Himachal Pradesh is home to several indigenous tribal communities, including the Kinnauris, Lahaulis, and Spitiis. These communities have their own distinct languages, traditions, and customs that contribute to the state's cultural diversity.
",9);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Languages'," Hindi is the official language of Jharkhand and is widely spoken. However, several tribal languages, including Mundari, Santhali, Ho, and Kharia, are spoken by various indigenous communities.",10);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Tribal Culture',"Jharkhand has a significant tribal population, and tribal culture plays a central role in the state's identity. Some of the prominent tribal communities in Jharkhand include the Santhal, Munda, Oraon, Ho, and Birhor. These communities have their own languages, customs, and traditions, including distinct forms of music, dance, and art.",10);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Festivals',"The state celebrates a variety of festivals, both tribal and non-tribal. Some of the major festivals include 'Sarhul','Karma','Chhath Puja' etc",10);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Art and Handicrafts',"Jharkhand is known for its traditional art forms, including Paitkar paintings, Sohrai and Khovar paintings, and Dokra metalwork. These crafts often feature intricate designs and patterns inspired by tribal culture.",10);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Religion',"While tribal religions and animism are practiced by many indigenous communities in Jharkhand, the state is religiously diverse. Hinduism, Islam, and Christianity also have significant followings.",10);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Literature and Oral Tradition',"Jharkhand has a rich oral tradition of storytelling, legends, and folklore. These stories are often passed down through generations and play a vital role in preserving tribal culture and identity.
",10);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Natural Beauty'," The state's lush forests, hills, and scenic landscapes have a significant influence on its culture and traditions. Nature and its preservation hold great importance in tribal communities.
",10);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Social Movements',"Jharkhand has a history of social and political movements for the rights of indigenous communities and their autonomy. The state's cultural identity is closely tied to these struggles for self-determination and social justice.",10);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Languages',"Kannada is the official language of Karnataka and the most widely spoken language. The state is also home to several other languages and dialects, including Tulu, Konkani, and Kodava.",11);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Festivals',"Karnataka celebrates a wide range of festivals with great fervor. Some of the major festivals include 'Dassara','Ugadi','Ganesha Chatturthi' etc.",11);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Music',"Karnataka has a rich musical tradition, with classical music playing a prominent role. The state is famous for its contribution to Carnatic music, with legendary musicians like Purandara Dasa and Tyagaraja originating from Karnataka. The Veena, a traditional musical instrument, is widely revered.",11);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Dance',"Classical dance forms like Bharatanatyam and Kuchipudi are popular in 
Karnataka. The state also has its own unique dance forms, such as Yakshagana and Dollu Kunitha, which are known for their vibrant costumes and storytelling.
",11);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Wildlife and Conservation',"Karnataka is home to several national parks and wildlife sanctuaries, including Nagarhole and Bandipur. Conservation efforts and wildlife protection are integral to the state's culture and identity.",11);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Natural Beauty',"Karnataka is blessed with diverse landscapes, including the Western Ghats, coastal regions, and lush forests. This natural beauty plays a significant role in the state's culture and traditions.
",11);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Languages',"Malayalam is the official language of Kerala and the most widely spoken language. English is also widely used, especially in urban areas. Kerala is known for its high literacy rate and appreciation of literature.
",12);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Festivals',": Kerala celebrates a wide range of festivals with great enthusiasm. Some of the major festivals include 'Onam','Visnu','Thrissur Pooram'",12);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Cuisine',"Kerala's cuisine is known for its distinctive flavors, use of coconut, and extensive use of spices. Dishes like Kerala Sadya (a traditional vegetarian feast), Malabar biryani, appam with stew, and seafood delicacies like karimeen pollichathu (fish in banana leaf) are popular.
",12);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Literature',"Kerala has a rich literary tradition, with contributions from poets like Kumaran Asan and Vallathol Narayana Menon. The state has a deep appreciation for literature, and the works of renowned Malayalam writers are widely read and celebrated.
",12);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Ayurveda',"Kerala is a hub for traditional Ayurvedic medicine and wellness practices. Ayurveda centers offer treatments, therapies, and massages that draw visitors seeking holistic health and well-being.
",12);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Environment Conservation',"Kerala places a strong emphasis on environmental conservation and sustainable practices. Initiatives like responsible tourism and organic farming are becoming increasingly important aspects of the state's culture.",12);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Languages'," Hindi is the official language of Madhya Pradesh and is widely spoken. However, various regional languages and dialects are also used, including Malvi, Bundeli, and Nimadi. Tribal communities often have their own languages and dialects.",13);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Festivals',"Madhya Pradesh celebrates a wide range of festivals with great enthusiasm. Some of the major festivals include 'Diwali','Holi','Khajuraho Dance Festival' etc.",13);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Religion',"Hinduism is the predominant religion in Madhya Pradesh, and the state is home to numerous temples and pilgrimage sites. Some of the most famous temples include the Khajuraho Group of Monuments, Ujjain's Mahakaleshwar Temple, and Omkareshwar Temple.
",13);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Historical Monuments'," The state is home to many historical sites and monuments, including forts, palaces, and archaeological remains. Gwalior Fort, Mandu, and Sanchi Stupa are notable examples.",13);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Natural Beauty',"Madhya Pradesh is known for its diverse landscapes, including dense forests, wildlife sanctuaries, and the Vindhya and Satpura mountain ranges. Nature and wildlife conservation are integral to the state's culture, and the state boasts several national parks like Kanha and Bandhavgarh.
",13);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Language',"Marathi is the official language and is widely spoken across the state. Mumbai, the capital of Maharashtra, is a cosmopolitan city where you'll also hear several languages including Hindi, English, and various regional languages.
",14);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Festivals',"Maharashtra celebrates a wide range of festivals with enthusiasm. Some of the major festivals include 'Ganesh Chaturrthi', 'Diwali', 'Gudi Padwa' etc.",14);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Cuisine'," Maharashtrian cuisine is diverse and flavorful, with a mix of vegetarian and non-vegetarian dishes. Popular dishes include Vada Pav, Puran Poli, Pav Bhaji, Misal Pav, and Bhakri. The use of spices and coconut is prevalent in traditional dishes.
",14);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Art and Handicrafts',"Maharashtra is known for its Warli paintings, Paithani silk sarees, Bidriware, and Kolhapuri chappals. These artistic expressions often depict scenes from rural life and folklore.",14);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Theatre and Cinema',"Maharashtra has a thriving theater scene, with a history of renowned playwrights and performers. The state is also the heart of the Indian film industry, Bollywood, with Mumbai as its epicenter.",14);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Literature',"Maharashtra has a rich literary heritage with celebrated writers like Marathi poet Kusumagraj, Jnanpith Award-winning authors like V.S. Khandekar, and social reformers like Jyotirao Phule. Marathi literature has a profound impact on the cultural identity of the state.",14);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Education and Research',"Maharashtra is home to prestigious educational institutions like the University of Mumbai and the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), contributing to the state's culture of education and research.
",14);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Languages',"Meiteilon (Manipuri) is the official language of Manipur and is widely spoken. English and other regional languages and dialects are also used. Meiteilon has a rich literary tradition, and classical Manipuri literature is highly regarded.",15);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Festivals',"Manipur celebrates a variety of festivals with great fervor. Some of the prominent festivals include 'Yashong', 'Kang Festival','Lai Haraoba' etc.",15);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Music and Dance',"Manipur is known for its classical dance form, Manipuri dance. This dance style is characterized by graceful movements, intricate hand gestures, and elaborate costumes. The state also has a rich tradition of folk music and dance, often accompanied by traditional instruments like the pung (drum) and pena (a stringed instrument)",15);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Cuisine',"Manipuri cuisine is known for its unique flavors and use of local ingredients. Rice is a staple, and dishes like Eromba, Singju, and Chamthong are popular. Manipuri cuisine often incorporates fermented ingredients and bamboo shoots.",15);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Sports',"Manipur is known as the 'Land of Polo' and is credited with the origins of modern polo. The state is also renowned for producing exceptional athletes, particularly in sports like boxing, weightlifting, and archery.
",15);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Traditional Attire',"Traditional Manipuri attire for women includes the Phanek (wrap-around skirt) and Innaphi (shawl), often adorned with intricate embroidery and designs. Men typically wear a dhoti and kurta or a shirt.",15);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Folklore and Stories'," Manipur has a rich oral tradition of folklore, legends, and mythological stories that are passed down through generations. These stories often revolve around the state's natural surroundings and cultural beliefs.
",15);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Natural Beauty',"Manipur is known for its scenic beauty, including lush green valleys, lakes (such as Loktak Lake), and the beautiful Shirui Lily. The state's natural beauty is often a source of inspiration for its art and culture.",15);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Languages'," Khasi and Garo are the predominant languages spoken in Meghalaya, with English also being widely used, especially in education and administration.",16);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Festivals'," Meghalaya celebrates a variety of festivals with great enthusiasm. Some of the major festivals include 'Nongkrem Dance Festival', 'Wangala Festival' etc.",16);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Music and Dance'," Music is an integral part of Meghalaya's culture, with unique indigenous instruments like the duitara, tangmuri, and bamboo flutes. Traditional dances like the Nongkrem dance, Shad Suk Mynsiem, and Wangala dance are performed during festivals and special occasions.",16);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Natural Beauty',"Meghalaya is renowned for its stunning natural landscapes, including lush green hills, waterfalls (such as Nohkalikai Falls), and caves (like Mawsmai Cave). The state's culture is deeply connected to its breathtaking surroundings.",16);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Conservation',"Meghalaya places a strong emphasis on environmental conservation and sustainable practices. The state is home to several protected areas and wildlife sanctuaries, and traditional conservation practices are still followed by many indigenous communities.",16);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Art and Handicrafts',"Meghalaya is known for its bamboo and cane craftsmanship. Artisans create a variety of products such as baskets, mats, and traditional musical instruments. Handwoven textiles and jewelry made from natural materials are also popular.",16);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Religion',"Meghalaya is a religiously diverse state with a significant Christian population, particularly among the Khasi and Garo communities. Indigenous animistic beliefs and practices are also prevalent, and traditional nature worship plays a significant role in daily life.",16);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Language',"Mizo is the official language of Mizoram and is widely spoken. English is also commonly used, especially in education and administration.",17);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Festivals',"Mizoram celebrates a variety of festivals with great enthusiasm. Some of the major festivals include 'Chapchur Kut', 'Mim Kut', 'Pawl Kut' etc.",17);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Music and Dance',"Music plays a central role in Mizoram's culture. The Mizo people are known for their exceptional musical talents and unique instruments like the bamboo flute (tlangtui), drum (khuang), and gong (dahrawk). Cheraw, a traditional bamboo dance, is a popular folk dance performed during festivals.",17);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Traditional Attire',"The traditional attire of the Mizo people is known for its vibrant colors and intricate patterns. Men often wear a traditional skirt called Puanchei, while women wear a wraparound cloth called Puan",17);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Tribal Culture',"Mizoram is home to several indigenous Mizo tribes, including the Lusei, Hmar, and Mara. Each tribe has its own distinct customs, dialects, and traditional practices, contributing to the state's cultural diversity.",17);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Art and Handicrafts',"Mizoram is known for its traditional art forms, including intricate bamboo and cane craftwork, woodcarving, and pottery. The state's artisans create a wide range of products, including baskets, mats, and traditional musical instruments",17);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Languages',"Nagamese, a creole language, serves as a lingua franca among the diverse Naga tribes. However, each Naga tribe has its own distinct language and dialects, reflecting the cultural diversity of the state.",18);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Festivals'," Nagaland is renowned for its colorful and unique festivals, which are a showcase of Naga culture. Some of the major festivals include 'Hornbill Festival', 'Moatsu Festival', 'Sekrenyl Festival'",18);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Music and Dance'," Music and dance are integral to Naga culture. Each tribe has its own unique dance forms, often accompanied by traditional musical instruments like bamboo flutes, log drums, and gongs. War dances, folk songs, and traditional tunes are important cultural expressions.",18);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Traditional Attire',"Naga tribes have distinct traditional attire. Men and women often wear handwoven shawls, with patterns and colors specific to their tribe. Intricately designed accessories and jewelry are also important parts of their traditional dress.",18);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Art and Handicrafts',"Nagaland is known for its skilled artisans who produce a variety of handicrafts, including handwoven textiles, wood carvings, bamboo crafts, and beadwork. The state's artisans create intricate designs and patterns that reflect their tribal identity.",18);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Religion',"Christianity is the predominant religion in Nagaland, with a significant majority of the population being Christian, primarily Baptist. Traditional Naga animistic beliefs, involving nature worship and ancestral spirits, continue to be practiced alongside Christianity.",18);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Art and Handicrafts',"Nagaland is known for its skilled artisans who produce a variety of handicrafts, including handwoven textiles, wood carvings, bamboo crafts, and beadwork. The state's artisans create intricate designs and patterns that reflect their tribal identity.",18);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Tribal Culture',"Nagaland is home to numerous Naga tribes, each with its own distinct culture, language, and traditions. Some of the major tribes include the Angami, Ao, Sema, Konyak, and Rengma. These tribes have unique customs, social structures, and dialects.",18);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Languages',"Odia is the official language of Odisha and is widely spoken. English and other regional languages and dialects are also used.",19);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Festivals',"Odisha celebrates a plethora of festivals with great fervor and enthusiasm. Some of the major festivals include 'Rath Ytara', Durga Puja', 'Konark Dance Festival' etc",19);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Cuisine',"Odia cuisine is known for its delectable flavors and extensive use of rice, lentils, and vegetables. Popular dishes include dalma (a lentil and vegetable stew), pakhal bhaat (fermented rice), and seafood delicacies",19);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Art and Handicrafts',"Odisha is famous for its intricate art and craftsmanship. The state is renowned for its Pattachitra (scroll painting), stone and wood carvings, and silver filigree work. The vibrant appliqué work of Pipli is also a notable craft.",19);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Natural Beauty',"Odisha is known for its diverse landscapes, including pristine beaches along the Bay of Bengal, dense forests, and the picturesque Chilika Lake. The state's natural beauty has a significant influence on its culture.",19);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Education and Culture',"Odisha places a strong emphasis on education and cultural preservation. The state has numerous cultural institutions, museums, and academies dedicated to promoting its heritage.",19);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Language',"Punjabi is the official language of Punjab and is widely spoken by the majority of the population. Hindi and English are also commonly used, especially in urban areas.",20);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Festivals',"Punjab celebrates a variety of festivals with great enthusiasm. Some of the major festivals include 'Vaishaki','Lohri','Gurpurab' etc.",20);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Music and Dance'," Punjab is known as the 'Land of Five Rivers,' and music plays a central role in its culture. Bhangra, a lively and energetic dance form, is a symbol of Punjab and is often performed during celebrations. Punjabi music, characterized by its beat-heavy rhythms and lyrics that celebrate life and love, is popular worldwide.",20);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Cuisine',"Punjabi cuisine is famous for its hearty and flavorful dishes. Staples include roti (flatbread), paratha, and rice, often served with rich curries, such as butter chicken, dal makhani, and various tandoori dishes. Punjabis are known for their love of dairy products like butter, ghee, and paneer.",20);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Traditional Attire',"Traditional Punjabi attire for men includes the kurta and pajama or dhoti, often paired with a colorful turban. Women typically wear the salwar kameez or Punjabi suit, often adorned with vibrant embroidery and embellishments.",20);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Religion',"Sikhism is the predominant religion in Punjab, and the state is home to several historically significant Sikh shrines, including the Golden Temple in Amritsar. Hinduism and Islam are also practiced by significant sections of the population.",20);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Folklore and Legends',"Punjab has a rich tradition of folk tales and legends, often related to heroic and romantic themes. Stories of Heer-Ranjha and Sohni-Mahiwal are famous examples.",20);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Languages',"Rajasthani is the most widely spoken language in the state. Hindi is also commonly used, especially in urban areas, and English is often used for business and tourism.",21);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Festivals',"Rajasthan celebrates a wide range of colorful festivals, some of which are unique to the state which include 'Pushkar Camel Fair','Jaipur Literature Festival','Diwali And Holi' etc.",21);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Music and Dance',"Rajasthan has a rich tradition of folk music and dance. The state is famous for its traditional music instruments like the dholak, sarangi, and morchang. Folk dances such as Ghoomar, Kalbelia, and Bhavai are an integral part of Rajasthani culture.",21);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Traditional Attire',"The traditional clothing of Rajasthan is known for its vibrant colors and intricate designs. Women often wear ghagra choli (long skirts and blouses) and odhni (headscarf), while men wear turbans and dhotis.",21);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Desert Culture'," The Thar Desert covers a significant portion of Rajasthan, and desert culture plays an important role in the state's identity. The desert lifestyle, including camel riding and nomadic communities, adds to the cultural diversity.",21);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Folklore and Legends',"Rajasthan has a rich tapestry of folklore and legends, often revolving around chivalrous warriors, royal romances, and local heroes. These stories are passed down through generations.",21);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Languages',"Nepali is the most widely spoken language in Sikkim and serves as the lingua franca among the various communities. English is also used for official purposes, and Bhutia and Lepcha are spoken by their respective indigenous communities.",22);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Religion'," Sikkim is known for its religious diversity. The majority of the population practices a form of Tibetan Buddhism, and Sikkim is home to many monasteries (Gompas), the most famous of which is Rumtek Monastery. Hinduism is also followed by a significant portion of the population, and there are several Hindu temples, including the Pashupatinath Temple in the capital, Gangtok.",22);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Festivals'," Sikkim celebrates a variety of festivals, both Buddhist and Hindu. Some of the major festivals include 'Losar','Dashain','Tihar(Deepawali)' etc.",22);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Traditional Attire',"Traditional clothing varies among the different communities. Bhutia men wear a gho and kho, while women wear a pangden. Lepcha men wear a dumpra, and women wear a ankle-length dress called a tharo.",22);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Natural Beauty',"Sikkim's culture is deeply connected to its stunning natural landscapes, including the Himalayan mountains, lush forests, and pristine lakes. The state's reverence for nature is reflected in its culture and traditions.",22);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Language',"The official language of Tamil Nadu is Tamil, one of the oldest classical languages in the world. Tamil literature dates back over 2,000 years and includes a vast body of poetry, prose, and ancient texts.",23);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Classical Arts',"Tamil Nadu is renowned for its classical arts, including music, dance, and drama. The state is the birthplace of two classical dance forms: Bharatanatyam and Kathakali. These dances are characterized by intricate hand gestures, footwork, and expressive facial movements.",23);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Cuisine',"Tamil Nadu's cuisine is diverse and known for its use of rice, lentils, and spices. South Indian dishes like dosa, idli, sambar, and various rice preparations are staples. Chettinad cuisine, known for its spiciness and use of aromatic spices, is particularly famous.",23);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Temples',"Tamil Nadu is home to some of the most magnificent temples in India. The state is known for its ancient Dravidian-style temples with towering gopurams (entrance towers) and intricately carved sculptures. The Brihadeeswarar Temple in Thanjavur and the Meenakshi Amman Temple in Madurai are among the most iconic.",23);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Dress'," Traditional attire in Tamil Nadu includes sarees for women and dhotis or veshtis for men. Women often wear silk sarees with intricate designs, while men may wear traditional shirts and angavastrams along with the dhoti.",23);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Art and Craft',"Tamil Nadu is known for its traditional art forms, including Tanjore painting, stone carving, and bronze casting. The state's artisans create exquisite pieces of art that often depict religious themes.",23);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Languages'," Telugu is the official language of Telangana, and most of the population speaks it. Urdu is also widely spoken, especially in certain areas, and there are several tribal languages spoken by indigenous communities.",24);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Festivals'," Telangana celebrates a wide range of festivals, both Hindu and Islamic, with great enthusiasm. Some of the major festivals include 'Bathukamma','Boanlu','Ramadam and Eid-ul-Fitr' etc.",24);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Music and Dance',"Telangana has a rich tradition of folk music and dance forms that vary from region to region. Some of the famous folk dances include Lambadi, Perini Shivatandavam, and Dhimsa. The region also has its own unique musical instruments like the dappu and harmonium.",24);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Traditional Attire'," Traditional clothing in Telangana varies among different communities. Women often wear sarees with unique draping styles, while men typically wear dhotis and kurta. In rural areas, Lambadi women are known for their colorful attire and jewelry.",24);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Art and Handicrafts',"Telangana is known for its traditional art forms and handicrafts, including intricate Bidriware, Nirmal paintings, and the famous Telangana handloom sarees.",24);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Kakatiya Dynasty',"The historical legacy of the Kakatiya Dynasty, which ruled the region in the mediaeval period, is an important part of Telangana's cultural heritage. The Warangal Fort and the Thousand Pillar Temple are notable historical sites.",24);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Ethnic Diversity',"Tripura is home to several indigenous communities, with the Tripuri people being the largest ethnic group. Other notable groups include the Reang, Chakma, Halam, and Mog. Each community has its own distinct cultural practices, languages, and traditions.",25);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Languages',"Bengali and Kokborok are the official languages of Tripura. Kokborok is widely spoken among the indigenous Tripuri population, while Bengali is the dominant language in urban areas. Many people in Tripura are bilingual, speaking both Kokborok and Bengali.",25);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Traditional Attire',"Traditional attire varies among the different communities. For example, Tripuri women often wear the 'Rignai' (a traditional Tripuri Mekhla), and men wear the 'Rikutu' (a traditional Tripuri jacket). The Chakma people have their own distinctive attire, featuring colorful textiles and accessories.",25);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Dance and Music',"ripura has a rich tradition of folk dance and music. The 'Hojagiri' dance of the Reang community and the 'Wangala' dance of the Garo people are notable examples. Traditional musical instruments like the 'Sumui' and 'Chongpreng' are commonly used during cultural performances.",25);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Tribal Beliefs',"Many indigenous communities in Tripura follow animistic and shamanistic beliefs. These beliefs are closely tied to nature and involve rituals and ceremonies to seek protection and well-being.",25);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Handicrafts',"Tripura is known for its handicrafts, including bamboo and cane products, handwoven textiles, and pottery. These handicrafts play a vital role in the livelihoods of many indigenous communities.",25);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) VALUES('Tourism',"Tripura's cultural diversity, coupled with its lush landscapes and historical sites, attracts tourists interested in experiencing its unique culture and traditions.",25);
INSERT INTO cultural_heritage (heritage,details,stateid) 
VALUES
('Religion and Spirituality',"Uttarakhand is a sacred land with a strong religious influence. The state is home to several important pilgrimage sites, including the Char Dham (Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath, and Badrinath), which attract thousands of devotees and tourists each year. The town of Haridwar is famous for the Ganga Aarti, a mesmerizing evening ritual on the banks of the Ganges River.
",26),
('Languages',"Hindi is the official language of Uttarakhand, and it is widely spoken. Additionally, various regional languages and dialects are spoken by different communities, such as Kumaoni and Garhwali.",26),
('Folk Music and Dance',"The state has a rich tradition of folk music and dance. 'Chholiya' and 'Jhora' are popular traditional dance forms performed during festivals and celebrations. The music often features the use of regional instruments like the 'Dhol,' 'Damau,' and 'Ransingha.'
",26),
('Festivals',"Uttarakhand celebrates a wide range of festivals. Diwali, Holi, and Raksha Bandhan are observed with fervor. The 'Nanda Devi Raj Jat Yatra' is a significant religious pilgrimage and cultural event that takes place once every 12 years. Other festivals like 'Phool Dei' and 'Kandali' are celebrated with colorful rituals and ceremonies.",26),
('Traditional Attire',"The traditional attire of Uttarakhand varies across regions. In the Kumaon region, women wear the 'Kumaoni Pichora' and 'Rangwali Pichora,' while men don the 'Dhoti-Kurta.' In Garhwal, women wear 'Garhwali sarees' and 'Rangwali Pichora,' and men wear 'Garhwali Kurta-Pajama' or 'Dhoti-Kurta.'",26),
('Religious Significance'," Uttar Pradesh is often referred to as the 'Heartland of India' due to its association with several major religions. It is home to the holy city of Varanasi (Kashi), one of the oldest continually inhabited cities in the world and a major pilgrimage site for Hindus. Ayodhya, believed to be the birthplace of Lord Rama, and Mathura, associated with Lord Krishnas birth, are also located in UP.
",27),
('Languages',"Hindi is the official language of Uttar Pradesh, and it is widely spoken. However, various dialects and languages, including Awadhi, Bhojpuri, and Braj Bhasha, are also spoken in different regions of the state.
",27),
('Festivals',"Uttar Pradesh celebrates a wide array of festivals with great enthusiasm. Diwali, Holi, Eid, Christmas, and Durga Puja are among the major festivals celebrated by different communities. The grand celebration of Diwali in Ayodhya is particularly famous.
",27),
('Art and Architecture',"The state is known for its architectural marvels, including the Taj Mahal in Agra, which is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and one of the most iconic symbols of love and architecture in the world. Other notable monuments include the Agra Fort, Fatehpur Sikri, and the temples and ghats along the Ganges River in Varanasi.
",27),
('Music and Dance',"Uttar Pradesh has a rich musical heritage. Classical music forms such as Hindustani classical music, with legendary musicians like Tansen, have their roots here. Folk music and dance forms like Kathak are also prominent. The state has contributed significantly to the development of classical and folk arts.",27),
('Language and Literature',"Bengali (Bangla) is the official language of West Bengal and is widely spoken and written. It has a rich literary tradition, with renowned poets and authors like Rabindranath Tagore, who won the Nobel Prize in Literature for his work 'Gitanjali'.
",28),
(' Music and Dance',"Music is an integral part of West Bengals culture. Rabindra Sangeet, a genre of songs composed by Rabindranath Tagore, holds a special place in the hearts of Bengalis. Baul music, Bhatiali, and Kirtan are other traditional music forms.Dance forms like Kathakali, Manipuri, and Odissi have also made their mark in the states cultural landscape. The traditional folk dance, known as 'Baul,' is a unique and expressive dance form
",28),
('Festivals',"Durga Puja is the most celebrated festival in West Bengal. It is a grand event where elaborately decorated idols of the goddess Durga are worshipped. The entire state comes alive with processions, cultural performances, and artistic decorations.   - Other festivals like Diwali, Eid, Christmas, and Holi are also celebrated with enthusiasm, reflecting the religious diversity of the region.",28),
('Art and Craft',"West Bengal is known for its intricate handicrafts and art forms. The state is famous for its terracotta work, kantha embroidery, and clay pottery. The town of Shantiniketan, founded by Rabindranath Tagore, is a hub for traditional arts and crafts.
",28),
(' Cuisine: '," Bengali cuisine is renowned for its delicious and diverse flavors. Fish is a staple in Bengali cuisine, and dishes like macher jhol (fish curry), shorshe ilish (hilsa fish in mustard sauce), and sweets like rasgulla and sandesh are popular. The state is also known for its street food, including phuchka (pani puri) and kathi rolls.
",28),
('Indigenous Tribes',"The islands are inhabited by several indigenous tribes, including the Great Andamanese, Onge, Jarwa, and Sentinalese. These tribes have lived in isolation for centuries and have their own languages, customs, and ways of life. Many of them continue to follow traditional hunting and gathering practices.",29),
('Language'," While the indigenous tribes have their own languages, Hindi, Bengali, and Tamil are widely spoken due to the presence of settlers and government officials from the mainland.
",29),
('Arts and Crafts',"The tribes of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands are known for their unique handicrafts, such as cane and bamboo products, wood carvings, and shell jewelry. These crafts are often used in daily life and are also sold as souvenirs to tourists.
",29),
('Festivals',"The indigenous tribes celebrate their own festivals, which are often linked to nature and the changing seasons. Some of these festivals involve traditional dances, music, and rituals. However, access to these celebrations is restricted to protect the tribes way of life.",29),
('Cuisine',"The cuisine of the islands reflects the blend of cultures and influences from the mainland. Seafood is a staple, with dishes like fish curry and coconut-based preparations being popular. Fruits and vegetables grow abundantly on the islands and are incorporated into the local diet",29),
('City Planning and Architecture',"Chandigarh is renowned for its well-planned and organized urban layout. The city is divided into sectors, each with its own commercial and residential areas. The architecture, characterized by clean lines and geometric shapes, is a blend of modernist and Brutalist styles. Landmarks like the Capitol Complex, the High Court, and the Open Hand Monument are prime examples of Le Corbusiers influence on the city.",30),
('Education and Research'," Chandigarh is home to several prestigious educational institutions and research centers. Panjab University, one of Indias top universities, is located here. The citys educational culture has contributed to its reputation as an intellectual hub.
",30),
('Arts and Culture',"The city has a growing arts and culture scene with galleries, theaters, and cultural centers. The Government Museum and Art Gallery houses an impressive collection of art and historical artifacts. The Tagore Theatre hosts various cultural events, including music concerts, dance performances, and theater productions.",30),
('Music and Dance',"Chandigarh has a vibrant music and dance culture. It hosts various music festivals and concerts throughout the year, featuring both classical and contemporary music. Bhangra and Giddha, traditional Punjabi dance forms, are also popular in the city.",30),
('Festivals',"Chandigarh celebrates various festivals with great enthusiasm. Diwali, Holi, Dussehra, and Christmas are celebrated with lights, decorations, and community events. The citys diverse population ensures that festivals from different cultures are observed with equal zeal.",30),
('Tribal Communities',"The territory is home to several indigenous tribal communities, including the Dhodia, Kokna, and Warli tribes. These tribes have their own distinct languages, traditions, and customs. Traditional tribal life often revolves around agriculture, hunting, and gathering.
",31),
('Languages',"The main languages spoken in Dadra and Nagar Haveli are Bhili and Warli, which are native to the tribal communities. However, Marathi and Gujarati are also widely spoken due to their proximity to the neighboring states of Maharashtra and Gujarat.
",31),
('Festivals',"The tribal communities celebrate a variety of festivals that are often linked to agriculture and the changing seasons. Major tribal festivals include Tarpa Dance during Holi, Madhugari during Diwali, and Chakri during the harvest season. These festivals involve traditional music, dance, and rituals.
",31),
('Arts and Crafts',"The tribal communities of Dadra and Nagar Haveli are known for their traditional arts and crafts, including Warli paintings, bamboo crafts, and pottery. Warli paintings, in particular, are a form of tribal art characterized by simple, geometric designs and motifs depicting daily life and nature.",31),
('Music and Dance',"Music and dance are integral parts of tribal culture. The Tarpa dance, a tribal dance form, is performed during various festivals and celebrations. It involves the use of the Tarpa, a traditional wind instrument. The Gher dance is another tribal dance performed during the monsoon season.",31),
('Historical Heritage',"Daman and Diu have a rich historical past, with Portuguese colonial rule leaving a lasting impact on the culture. The Portuguese ruled these territories for over four centuries, and their influence can still be seen in the architecture, cuisine, and religious practices.
",32),
('Religious Diversity',"The population of Daman and Diu practises a variety of religions, including Hinduism, Christianity, and Islam. The region has several temples, churches, and mosques, each with its own unique architectural and cultural significance.
",32),
('Festivals',"The people of Daman and Diu celebrate a range of festivals with enthusiasm. Major Hindu festivals like Diwali, Holi, Navratri, and Ganesh Chaturthi are celebrated alongside Christian festivals such as Christmas and Easter. The celebrations often involve traditional rituals, music, and dance.
",32),
('Arts and Crafts',"Daman and Diu have a tradition of handicrafts, including shellcraft, bamboo craft, and pottery. The handicrafts often make for popular souvenirs for tourists.",32),
('Languages',"Gujarati, Marathi, and English are the primary languages spoken in Daman and Diu, but Portuguese is still spoken and understood by some of the older generation due to the colonial legacy",32),
('Historical Significance',"Delhi has been the seat of power for various empires and dynasties, including the Mauryas, Mughals, and British. Each era has left its mark on the city's culture, architecture, and heritage. The city is dotted with historical monuments such as the Red Fort, Qutub Minar, Humayun's Tomb, and India Gate, which stand as testimony to its rich history.",33),
('Religious Diversity',"Delhi is home to people of various religions, including Hinduism, Islam, Sikhism, Christianity, Buddhism, and Jainism. As a result, the city hosts a multitude of temples, mosques, gurudwaras, churches, and other places of worship. The Akshardham Temple and the Jama Masjid are notable religious landmarks.
",33),
('Languages',"Hindi and English are the official languages of Delhi, but the city is a linguistic melting pot. A large number of people also speak Punjabi, Urdu, Bengali, Tamil, and other regional languages due to the diverse population.",33),
('Festivals'," Delhi celebrates a wide array of festivals with great fervor. Diwali, Eid, Holi, Christmas, Navratri, and Gurupurab are some of the major festivals celebrated with colorful decorations, traditional rituals, and communal gatherings.
",33),
('Cuisine',"Delhi is a food lover paradise, offering a diverse range of culinary delights. Street food is particularly popular, with famous dishes like chaat, kebabs, parathas, and chole bhature. Delhi old markets like Chandni Chowk and Karim are renowned for their delectable street food.",33),
('Colonial Legacy',"Puducherry has a significant French colonial heritage, and its architecture, cuisine, and way of life still reflect this influence. French colonial rule lasted for nearly three centuries, from the early 17th century until 1954 when it merged with the Indian Republic.",34),
('Architecture:',"The colonial architecture of Puducherry is one of its most prominent cultural features. The French Quarter (Ville Blanche) is known for its charming streets, colonial-style buildings with pastel-colored facades, and ornate wrought-iron balconies. The White Town (Ville Blanche) and the Tamil Quarter (Ville Noire) are distinct areas showcasing French and Tamil architectural styles, respectively.",34),
('Language',"Tamil and French are the official languages of Puducherry, with Tamil being the predominant language. However, English is widely spoken and understood due to its importance in education and tourism.",34),
('Festivals',"Puducherry celebrates various festivals with enthusiasm. Hindu festivals like Diwali, Pongal, and Navratri are widely observed. The Feast of Our Lady of Lourdes is an important Christian celebration in the region. French cultural festivals and events are also organized, such as Bastille Day, which commemorates French National Day.",34),
('Cuisine',"The cuisine of Puducherry is a delightful fusion of French and South Indian flavors. You can savor dishes like 'Quiche,' 'Creole,' and 'Pissaladière' alongside traditional South Indian fare like 'Dosa,' 'Idli,' and 'Sambar.' French bakeries and cafes are also popular, offering a range of pastries and coffee.",34);